1. Force bolt/Magic Missile: 
I think Force bolt should have higher damage. Magic missile can hit multiple enemies; Force Bolt hits one, but does massive damage.




"spellbook of force bolt",
"spellbook of magic missile",
"spellbook of cold",
"spellbook of fireball",
"spellbook of lightning",
"spellbook of remove curse",
"spellbook of light",
"spellbook of identify",
"spellbook of magic mapping",
"spellbook of sleep",
"spellbook of confusion",
"spellbook of slow monster",
"spellbook of opening",
"spellbook of locking",
"spellbook of levitation",
"spellbook of invisibility",
"spellbook of teleportation",
"spellbook of healing",
"spellbook of extra healing",
"spellbook of restore ability",
"spellbook of cure ailment",
"spellbook of dig",
On top of these, consider adding these spells:
Spell of creation (like creating walls/blocks, but maybe also items and stuff) -- Not out of the question. Force wall makes more sense.
Detect enemy
Detect trap
Darkness spell (extinguish light sources? maybe extinguish flame could do that. Magical darkness that sets blindness while you're in it)
Mine spell (does damage, activates when walked over. Michael Bays please?)
Pain spell

Note: Maybe let there be multiple spell roots. Like specifying multiple targets.
Note: Maybe an element that has guidance. Like guided rockets.
Note: Maybe magic skill affects what elements you can see/discover. Maybe it's a chance. More magic skill = higher chance of finding an element for every spell you have & new spell you learn. Maybe small chance of learning new elements when casting a spell. Maybe instead of showing you all the elements at the start, whenever you cast a spell, if you haven't already hit the max discovered elements for that spell for your level (all things considered), then you learn a new element from that spell. That way, I can throw things like "insubstantial" into the light spell, but the player usually won't discover it until they're a rather high level.

Idea: a guidance element/tracking/hostile detection/targetting/tagging system, a fire element, the element that makes the magic light ball follow the player around, and the missile element, makes basically a shield of fireballs floating around the player/following him around that fly out towards enemies as they come into view.

Idea: forcewall (think Spess) spell. Or just an energy barrier/shield.
